>> My name is Payam Mirrashidi and
I'm an engineer on the iTunes store.
Today I'm going to talk about an exciting
new API that allows you to do purchases
in your applications, In App Purchase on iPhone.
Let's start with an overview.
I'm going to start by telling you what In App Purchase
is and what it isn't, what you need to do to implement
In App Purchases in your applications, and
finally I'm going to have a small section
on some financial details that
you're going to be interested in.
So let's get started.
What is In App Purchase?
Store Kit framework is an In App payment engine
for doing purchases in your applications.
So you need iPhone OS 3.0.
It's for paid apps only and it allows you to do, it allows
you expanded functionality in your shipping applications.
You can extend features that you ship with
the applications, that you compiled in,
and sell those features to your customers.
Or you can extend your application by accessing
features, content, services, stored up in the cloud.
Store Kit presents your user, your
customers with the same App Store experience
that they experienced for purchasing your application.
It confirms their identity, collects payment,
sends them the same iTunes store receipt
that they've already received when they bought your app.
For you, you'll see the transactions
in your iTunes Connect reports.
We'll talk about that later.
So what are you going to sell?
Store Kit doesn't define a business model for you.
In fact, it supports a large number
of business models out of the box.
You can sell content, you can sell functionality,
you've got a couple game levels in your app
that you shipped but you're going to charge for those.
You can sell access to services.
You can also sell access to subscriptions.
So let's go through each of these
and talk about what that means.
Well there are some rules for using
Store Kit in an app purchase.
Digital items only are supported.
You can't sell physical goods or services.
In addition, everything that you sell using the Store
Kit API whether it's content or services, subscriptions,
all of those goods must be delivered
to the app from which it was purchased.
In addition, you're required to provide whatever
you sold to all of a customer's devices.
So a given account, they have 3 devices,
what you sell must be available on all 3.
Let's go though some examples.
Digital books, those are supported, but real books are not.
Real books cannot be delivered to the
app from which they were purchased.
If you've got a poker game and someone runs out of chips and
they want to keep playing, you can sell some poker chips.
But what you can't do, is if you have a blackjack game,
you can't transfer those In App Purchases between apps.
In App Purchases must be delivered to
the app from which they were purchased.
So you can have some functionality that you ship
with your app and you're going to sell the customer
that functionality to open it up for them, that's okay.
But any kind of intermediate currency for
trading for virtual goods, it's not supported.
It's not passed in functionality.
The example I just gave is you've got a game, and
let's say you've got 10 levels that you've built.
When a customer buys your app, they get access to 8 and
you're going to charge a small fee for those additional 2.
That's fine, maybe some bonus content.
You can imagine in a document, an app where to use it out
of the box, you don't really need the ability to save,
but you want to charge a customer to add that functionality.
That's supported.
You can imagine a flight management application
where it can handle a single itinerary out of the box
when someone downloads your application,
but you want to charge
for managing additional itineraries, more of a pro feature.
That's supported.
Some service examples.
You've got your iPhone, take a picture of a business card,
have it sent up to the cloud, send
it back down, OCR with a V-Card.
That's something that, that is a digital good
that can be delivered to your application.
Same thing with voice transcription.
You've got an audio file, we send it up
to the cloud, you get a transcript back.
That's a supported feature.
Same with voice over IP.
Telephone service.
But plumbing repairs, courier delivery, web
services, design, those are not supported.
Those are not digital goods that
can be delivered to your app.
Stop by subscriptions real quick.
The subscriptions cause a little
bit of extra work on your part
because Store Kit doesn't define a business model for you.
Store Kit doesn't have a notion of a duration.
It doesn't do renewal billing.
These are features you'll have to implement yourself
if you want to support subscriptions in your app.
You can, but you can support a monthly periodical,
daily comic strip or access to financial data.
These are all features that you can sell, they
are services that you can sell using Store Kit.
Now for a good user experience you want to make
sure your renewal billing cycle is something
where you're not nagging the user constantly.
So that's something you have to decide.
Store Kit doesn't impose that on you.
Some examples of what isn't going to be supported is, you
know, your local video store membership or gym renewal.
How are items delivered?
Well built-in items are those items that you built into
your app, maybe there's some information on a key list,
maybe there's some code for an extra level,
you know in that multiple itinerary example.
You ship with that.
And when an In App Purchase goes
through, you unlock that feature.
There's nothing else that needs to be done.
All of the code, all of the content, you ship
with your app, you uploaded it to iTunes Connect.
There's also server-delivered items for remote services.
These are items, content, streaming services,
media, that you didn't ship with your app.
These are remotely delivered.
This is also supported.
In fact, some applications may
support a combination of both.
It's up to you, Store Kit doesn't
impose a business model on you.
It's up to you to define what you're going
to sell, how you're going to sell it.
All right let's talk about code.
How are you going to do this?
Well there are three steps to implementing
In App Purchase using Store Kit.
The first thing you've got to do is
figure out what you're going to sell.
Once you've figure that out, you define your metadata
of your products, and you upload it to iTunes Connect.
Then you've got to write some code.
We'll go through that in great detail.
And finally, we give you an environment
called Sandbox to test it in.
We'll talk about that as well.
So let's get started.
Defining the metadata for the products
that you want to sell.
The first thing you've got to do is create an item list.
What are you going to sell?
Well everything you're going to sell needs
to have a name, it's got to be localizable,
it needs to have a description,
it needs to have a price tier.
Price tier is the same price tiers you're
already using for your applications.
You already know what this is.
99 cents and so on.
And finally, you need to pick a Product ID.
Product ID is the unique identifier
for each product you wish to sell.
In this example, we've used reverse DNS to make sure
it's easy to make it unique across all the products.
So once you've got your product list, you
need to upload this to iTunes Connect.
Go to Manage Your Applications, you should find you
app, click on Manage In App Purchases and Create New.
Let's get started with what you need to enter.
Reference Name.
Reference Name is the name that you give the
product internally within your organization.
Most people will have this be in their own language.
So a French developer will probably be in French,
Japanese developer will have it in Japanese.
This is never exposed to the user.
Your customer will never see this either on a receipt,
in their purchase history, or in your application.
This is your name for the product.
And there's Product ID.
Product ID is a sequence of U2F8 letters and
numbers that uniquely identifies the product.
It's important that when you create a
new product, that you pick a good name,
and that's why we recommended a reverse DNS example before,
because once you enter it in here, you can't change it.
So pick your Product ID wisely.
Then you've got to pick the Type.
Let's talk about that real quick.
There are 3 types of In App Purchases.
Consumables, Non-Consumables, and Subscriptions.
Let's talk about these and what they mean.
Non-Consumables, that's the default.
Non-consumables are products with
built-in support in Store Kit.
When a customer buys a Non-consumable one device,
they're automatically, with no additional work by you,
going to be able to re-download it on another device.
The same way that today when a customer buys your app on one
device and they put their credentials on another, you know,
an iPod Touch, they get it for free on the other one.
If you mark your items as Non-consumable,
that comes for free.
There's no additional work for you.
Consumables are those devices, which can be used up.
You can imagine a game where you'd
get ammunition and you can run out.
And when you run out, maybe want to get a little boost,
you can charge your customer a little more for a boost.
So in that example, if you go to another device with
the same App Store username and password and you log in,
in that example you really shouldn't get it again.
You pay for it once, you consume it, and you move on.
So consumables can be purchased multiple times.
And furthermore, it's not required that a consumable
item be made available across multiple devices.
You may choose to do so because maybe a
consumable is something that's a period of time.
Store Kit doesn't define that and the rules
around consumables let you determine how
to, how the customer consumes that product.
Finally, there's Subscriptions.
They have all the same rules around how Store Kit interacts
with them, except that they're required to be shared
with all, across all devices for a given customer.
What that means is if I buy a subscription to Real
Time Stock Quotes and I have a phone and an iPod Touch,
I should be able to access them on both devices.
Once you pick the type, you pick the Price Tier and this is,
same Price Tiers you guys are already familiar
with by creating apps in iTunes Connect.
Now the Cleared for Sale flag is interesting
because this is one where you can't change it later
and what it means is, whether this item is cleared for sale.
When you first create a product you don't have to
mark this, you can come back later when you're ready
to deliver your, that product to your customers.
In fact, you can imagine a case where you ship your app, you
don't clear it for sale, and then after a period of time,
let's say a month or two, you can come back and check this.
And suddenly you've extended your application, the
product shows up and you don't have to push new code.
Localizations is something that the product supports,
it's a list of languages, and to localize two things
as I mentioned earlier, to localize a
name or a product and the description.
Now this isn't required, but you've
got to have at least one localization.
Name and the description.
Finally, you need to upload a screenshot of an
image that represents what your In App Purchase is.
And with that, you click Save Changes and you're done.
If you ever want to come back and edit that information,
maybe to Clear for Sale flag, come
back and click on the name.
So that's how you define the metadata
and upload it to iTunes Connect.
That's the first step.
Now let's write some code.
Building a purchase workflow into your application.
There are 10 steps to doing that.
It sounds like a lot but we've broken them down for
you and actually, it's pretty simple to add this API.
I would say deceptively simple to add this
API its port Store Kit in your application.
First thing you've got to do is, you
know, validate access to the App Store.
It's the parental controls on it.
Load your catalog, fetch the details localized for
the customer and their locale, present the items,
you've got to build the store, ask for payment.
Payment comes back, did it go through?
Validate the transaction, that's an important
step, we'll talk about that as we go through this.
If everything's fine, the payment went
through, the transaction was valid,
you unlock the feature, give the access to your customer.
Remember the purchase, which is come
back the next time they launch your app,
they have access to it, and finally support restore.
Let's go through each of these in detail.
It's a long list, but there's not
much you have to do for each one.
Validate App Store Access.
iPhone OS 3.0 supports parental controls for a
number of features and the App Store is one of them.
You've got kids like me who buy any app with a pretty
icon, you'll probably turn this off on your phone.
And here, Installing Apps, this, not only does it control
installing apps, but it also controls App Store Purchase.
In addition, you're company's configuration
profile may have prevented you from buying apps
and it also would've prevented
you from doing In App Purchases.
But it's really easy to figure out whether that is.
Is it PaymentQueue class and you call
Can't Make Payments, has a boolean,
yeah the App Store is accessible or no it isn't.
I would actually call the steps 0
because without this, you can't,
without a positive response from
this, you can't do In App Purchase.
So once you've got that out of
the way, you need your catalog.
For built-in features, for features
that you've shipped with your app,
you've probably got a key list
somewhere that defines your catalog.
For remote features, chances are you've got, you've
got to go talk to a server somewhere with a database
of the products and download that information.
If you do that, you probably want to store it, sock the key
list away somewhere so you don't have to repeatedly do that.
Once you've done that, it's time to integrate
the Store Kit and talk to the App Store.
The first thing you need to do is fetch the
details that are relevant for your customer,
in their language, in their price, with their storefront.
Over 70 countries supported by the App Store,
you want to make sure that the prices you offer,
you present to your customers, are relevant to them.
How you do that is you create a set that contains
all of the Product IDs that you wish to sell.
And from that, you create a ProductsRequest
object initialized with that set.
Now something I should note is that most of the
interaction you'll have with the App Store is asynchronous
which means we make, you'll make a
lot of use of delegates and observers.
Like in this example, which is
I've got a ProductsRequestDelegate.
When I make a request for a set of
products, at some point in the future,
Store Kit is going to call back and
let me know what the response was.
So once I've built up my ProductsRequest
object, I got my delegate, I say Sstart.
That's, Store Kit is now going to communicate with the App
Store, the App Store is going to look up those products,
integrates with iTunes Connect, look up your,
what you've uploaded, it's going to respond back.
And then you're going to get a notification
on your observer, excuse me, on your delegate.
You're going to get the didReceiveResponse message.
What does that contain?
Well, it's got two fields, two
properties that are going to interest you.
First, one is products.
This is the list of items you requested and are available in
the App Store right now, in your customer's current locale.
invalidProductIdentifiers are the list of
the Product IDs that we couldn't look up.
The App Store, you know, went to
the database, couldn't find it.
Now why could that be?
Well you may have forgotten to enter in iTunes Connect.
Maybe you mistyped the Product ID either
in your code, or in iTunes Connect.
Could be that you forgot to mark it Cleared for Sale.
You launched your app and not available.
Or, and it's important to note that the App
Store is a distributed worldwide application.
When you make a change in iTunes
Connect, it does take some time
for that information to replicate across all the servers.
So give it some time, when you make a change, when
you go mark Cleared for Sale, give it some time.
It doesn't take that long, but it's not instantaneous.
So with the products list, these are the products that
were available, right now in your customer's locale,
you can get the localized title for your
product, the description and the price.
If you remember back at the beginning when we created
the product, we had the name, description, and the tier.
This translates directly into this API call.
So with that, you can present the items for selection.
This is code that you have to write.
Store Kit doesn't provide a store user interface for you.
Store Kit doesn't define how you're going to present it
for your user, whether it's going to be within the app,
stand-alone store somewhere in your app, in
the Preferences, that's a decision up to you.
Store Kit doesn't impose a business model on you.
So once you built your store and you've
presented the item for selection,
the customer's going to, you know,
click it, make a purchase.
It's time to request payment.
Request payment's pretty simple too.
You create a payment object with
either the product that they selected,
that was back from the PproductsResponse
object from the previous slide,
or you can create a payment object
straight from the Product ID.
Either will work.
Now you have a Payment object.
With that Payment object, you get a reference to
the PaymentQueue, and added TransactionObserver.
Once again, TransactionObserver here is going
to give you a call back when the communication,
Store Kit communication with the App Store succeeds.
And then you call addPayment with that payment.
You call PaymentQueue, you add a payment to the queue.
What the PaymentQueue's going to do, is going to take a copy
of your payment object and create a payment transaction.
That payment transaction represents what
you're trying to sell to the customer.
Store Kit then communicates with the App
Store and presents a dialogue to the user.
The customer then decides, is going
to get to decide synchronously,
interactively, do they want to make this purchase?
Or do they decline this purchase?
That's a dialogue that they get right there.
Now if they haven't logged in, they're going to have
to present their user credentials right
then, their App Store user credentials.
Once they make a decision, control is
passed right back to your application
and your TransactionObserver's
updatedTransactions method is going to be called.
So how does that work?
For each transaction in the queue,
you're going to go through
and you can look at the state of all those transactions.
The first one's Purchasing.
You can imagine a situation where a customer's on a
train, they're playing with your app, they click by,
they're excited, and they go into a tunnel.
So you added the payment to the PaymentQueue, but
now Store Kit can't go connect to the App Store.
Those transactions are going be state Purchasing.
There could be a lot of different reasons why a
transaction is state Purchasing and all this means,
is that it's currently in progress, it's not completed.
At some point, it will get completed.
Another state is Purchased.
Purchased means that the customer, when
presented with a dialogue, they agreed,
they entered their credentials affirmatively,
and payment on the App Store was collected.
State Restored, this is how you're going to
be able to implement giving access to all
of a customer's purchases across all of their devices.
State Restored means when the customer was
presented with the dialogue to agree to the purchase,
they entered their credentials, when they went to the App
Store the App Store decided that was a non-consumable,
that the customer had purchased previously and so
is not going to charge the user for that purchase.
That transaction to the user was free.
And lastly is state Failed which is the
customer either declined their purchase,
or they didn't enter their credentials in right.
When you get a response, a Purchased or Restored,
that's when you unlock the feature
that you're selling to your customer.
Purchased or Restored.
In both of those cases, the App Store has collected
payment if necessary, if it was a brand new purchase,
and your customer has an expectation of receiving something.
It could be a feature you unlocked, it
could be some content you're downloading,
it could be access to a server, access to server content.
Now it's very important for you to validate these purchases.
Just because Store Kit responded hey this worked, how do you
know for sure that this is a transaction from the App Store?
Well transactions contain a transactionReceipt.
It's a cryptographic signed chunk of data that contains
some information that's going to be interesting to you.
It's signed by Apple, it's going to contain
the Product ID of what the customer bought,
it's going to contain your unique ID for your application,
it's going to contain when the transaction
happened, a unique transaction identifier.
And most importantly, you can take this transaction receipt,
send it to Apple via a web service, and have Apple validate
by the App Store, the App Store validates it, this
is a transaction that originated in the App Store,
it's a record in the database for that transaction.
Let's go through that in detail.
So I've got my app, I requested payment from the App
Store, payment went through and I got a transactionReceipt.
What do I do with it?
Well, what I'm going to do is post it
to my server, because I trust my server.
A server's in my co lo, it's under my direct control.
So I'm going to take that transaction
receipt, post it to my server,
and then my server is going to post it to the App Store.
My server, your server, may choose to store
that transaction receipt in a database somewhere
at some kind of logging it or audit facility.
Here's the URL for the service to verify receipt,
buy.itunes.apple.com/verifyReceipt,
it's a really simple service.
It's just a JavaScript object notation post content.
So you create adjacent object with a receipt-data
field, and put in there the transaction receipt data
that you received back from the Store Kit
transaction observer transaction object.
You take that, you post it to your server,
and have your server post it to the App Store.
The App Store now is going to take that transaction
receipt, it's going to verify the signature,
it's going to go to the database, make sure that this is an
authentic transaction, make sure that payment was required,
it showed up, and it's going to respond back with verified.
Well, status 0 means verified.
Any other status means it wasn't verified.
Now your server, which you trust, can
store away that this is a transaction
that legitimately occurred on the App Store.
And your server can come back to your
app and say hey, this transaction's good.
Go and unlock the feature, go and unlock the product,
go and unlock the service that the customer just bought.
Let's talk about unlocking purchases real quick
because your customers may quit at any time.
Your customers may be on a train and they got their
App Store purchase, they got the finished transaction,
everything happened, but that they went in a
tunnel and suddenly the transaction, you know,
they don't have access to the internet anymore.
So what happens then?
Well the PaymentQueue is persistent and not only that,
transactions within the PaymentQueue are persistent.
This means that it's really up to you to determine the
policy about when to remove things from the PaymentQueue.
You should only do it when you've
confirmed access to the product, or service,
or subscription that your customer just purchased.
If you have to go up to the cloud and
say hey this purchase happened, you know,
maybe its part of your transaction receipt process, store
that this customer now has access to this subscription.
You need to do that before removing
the transaction from the queue.
You remove transactions from the queue by calling
the finishTransaction API with the transaction.
This is critical because this means that any kind of
network issues, battery issues, the battery ran out
and you couldn't go remove the transaction,
all of this is dealt with because
of this persistent nature of these queues.
But you need to confirm access before removing
the transactions from the queue not after.
So once you've made the transaction, you
know, you've got to remember the purchase.
The next time the user, your customer launches your
app, they shouldn't have to pay for it again so,
you know, put a boolean in a key list somewhere.
Support Item Restore.
Well, as I mentioned previously, you must
make your customer's purchases available
on all of their devices for their account.
Just like apps today, where a customer
buys it on one device and they go
to another device, they're not going to get charged.
In App Purchases are going to work the same way.
If they wipe their phone, they
re-download your app for free,
they must have access to the products
they purchased from you.
How's that going to work?
If we've got an iPhone over here and I buy an app,
today the App Store makes it easy and all I've got
to do is get the App over on my iPod Touch.
I can go buy it, and re-download for free.
Items need to behave the same way.
An item bought over here on the iPhone, needs to
be made available over here on the iPod Touch.
Same for Restores.
When you restore a device, when a customer restores a device
they must have access to your application, to your product.
So how's that going to work?
Well, you could just depend on the Restored state
which is customer, if they buy the same product twice,
they're not going to be charged a second time.
You could just depend on that.
But you can do better, you can create a
much better user experience with Store Kit.
Store Kit allows you to have, create functionality
where you can provide user interface for your customer,
which is give me everything I bought on one button.
The API for that, it's on PaymentQueue,
and its restoreCompletedTransactions.
restoreCompletedTransactions is going to communicate with
the App Store and Store Kit is going to have available,
in that device's transaction queue, all of the
transactions that the user has purchased on that account.
This is why it's so easy for you to provide
products across the line of devices.
If the user has 3 devices, they just go click the
Restore Purchases button on all 3 of those devices.
If I have access to a subscription, I just
go click on that and it should show up.
Pretty simple.
Of course, once you call a restoreCompletedTransactions
on the PaymentQueue,
you're going to get back transactions in the StateRestored.
This means that the customer was
not charged for those products.
So those are the 10 steps for integrating with Store Kit.
There wasn't a lot of code there.
It's deceptively simple.
It is easy to integrate with the App
Store and integrate into your application.
You've got a couple classes, a couple delegate
methods, Store Kit takes care of the rest.
Store Kit isn't imposing a business model on you.
The reason this code is so short is because
all the logic, all the business model is code
that you have to write in your application.
Now you built your app, it's time to test.
How do you do that?
Well, we've got the Sandbox.
Sandbox is for testing In App Purchase
only and it's got a few restrictions.
One of them is you can only use it from a device.
It's important to note that Sandbox isn't a mode
on your phone, there isn't some button hidden away
in some preference somewhere that says turn on Sandbox.
The way Sandbox is enabled is to transfer
an application onto a device via Xcode.
Only applications that were transferred to
a device by Xcode can access the Sandbox.
If you have an application downloaded from
the App Store, that cannot access the Sandbox.
Invoices aren't sent from the Sandbox either.
Sandbox is there for you to test
your Store Kit API implementation.
And you need a separate Apple ID to test in the Sandbox.
Your production account that you're
using to make your own app purchases
or your tester's production account,
that's not going to work in the Sandbox.
And furthermore, just like, in the real App
Store, accounts are tied to a specific country.
You need to create an account for
each country you want to test in.
Now you'll want to do that if you're localizing into a
number of languages to see what the currencies are like,
that you set things up right, see what the
names are right, is it fitting into your app.
So you'll want to create an account
for each country you want to test.
And a Sandbox account can't be used
to test any other Store feature.
Sandbox is there to text Store Kit API in your application.
Furthermore if I make a stronger statement,
which is your application installed by Xcode.
Now since these accounts are required and
there's a unique email address per account,
the reason we need a unique email address.
Well the reason we need an email
address is, if you forget the password
to your account, we need a way to send it to you.
And accounts need a unique email
address, we recommend using +
It turns out a lot of mail servers ignore
everything between the + and the @ sign
for determining which inbox to deliver the mail to.
Mine does.
So if I want to create a test account to test in
the USA versus creating a test account in the UK,
I would do payam+usa@example.com or payam+uk@example.com.
When I create these accounts, email sent to
payam+uk@example.com will be sent to payam@example.com.
Then we can have one inbox receiving all of the messages.
Now here is the most important thing,
if there's one thing you walk away
from the presentation today, it
should be this point right here.
Before you start testing in the Sandbox, go to the
Settings application, click on Store, and Sign Out.
Let me repeat that.
Before you start testing your application in the Sandbox,
go to the Settings application, click
on Store, and click on Sign Out.
The reason for this is, as I mentioned there is no mode for
Sandbox, there isn't a checkbox or anything in Settings.
So if you logged in and you launch your app with
your production account logged in to your device,
Store Kit is just going to use that account.
You're not going to get a chance to
enter a different account's credentials.
Now if you're not logged in and you launch your application,
Store Kit will pop up, the authentication dialogue
and you'll get an opportunity to
enter your Sandbox credentials.
So I'm going to repeat that one more time.
Before you start testing, Sign Out,
and then launch your app to test.
Creating users is pretty simple, you go to iTunes Connect,
Manage Users, In App Purchase Test User, Create New.
You've got to enter this information, as I mentioned, the
information, the security information below is mainly there,
it's only there so we can send
you a password if you forget it.
Click Save.
So that's how to test in the Sandbox.
That's it.
Pretty simple huh?
Store Kit is a deceptively simple API to integrate with.
Testing, writing the code, all those things,
you're going to be able to sell products
in your store pretty quickly when
you integrate with Store Kit.
Let's talk about financials real quickly.
And it's quickly because well, there's not much to say.
The rules are the same as applications.
You already know all the rules.
You get 70%, payment schedule is the same,
royalties are the same, reports are all the same.
Well, they're not all the same,
we actually did add some fields.
The vendor ID fields contains the Product
ID, remember that unique product identifier
that we said all the way back in iTunes Connect?
The vendor ID field contains the Product ID.
And the parent identifier field contains
the Apple's unique identifier for your app.
So with the vendor ID and the parent ID you can
determine which apps are selling which products.
And that's it.
If you have questions, if you don't have them now,
you can email Mark and he'll answer them for you.